# ChesapeakeBay

### Code and output files for study on persistence of microbial signatures on boats.

### Abstract:

Objects collect microorganisms from their surroundings and develop a unique microbial “fingerprint” that may be useful for determining an object’s past location, or provenance. The application of natural microorganisms in forensic applications would leverage the ubiquitous presence of microorganisms for distributed sensing of environmental phenomena. Here we use boat associated microbial communities as a test case for demonstrating the application of natural microbial communities in determining object provenance. The use of microbial signatures to determine past location would be particularly useful for small vessels which are often undetected by current surveillance technologies. Here we use the microbial communities in the Port of Baltimore, the Port of Norfolk, and the Chesapeake Bay as a model system to demonstrate the use of microorganisms as biological sensors to determine the past location of boats. The microbiome of two boats were studied as these vessels traveled from the Port of Baltimore to the Port of Norfolk, and back to Baltimore. Along the way, samples were collected from the open water and various locations on the boat. 16S rRNA sequencing was performed to identify microorganisms. Machine learning models were constructed to predict the previous location of the vessel based on the microbiome. Predicted probabilities of the model were used to determine the previous vessel location. The work presented here provides a better understanding of how microbes in aquatic systems can be leveraged as utility for object biosensors.
